# 2.1 Python Syntax and Commenting

## Learning Objectives

By the end of this lesson, you should be able to:

- Execute Python syntax
- Understand Python indentation
- Creating and assigning variables
- Use comments for documentation

## Execute Python Syntax

The most basic Python syntax is the `print()` function. This function is used to display output to the console. For example, to print the string "Hello, World!" to the console, you would use the following code:

```python
print("Hello, World!")
```

If you have a python file (file that ends with `.py`), you can run it from the command line using the `python` command followed by the name of the file. For example, if you have a file named `hello.py` with the following code:

```python
print("Hello, World!")
```

You can run it from the command line (bash in macOS/Linux or command prompt in Windows) using the following command:

```bash
python hello.py
```

## Python Indentation

Indentation refers to the spaces at the beginning of a code line.

Python uses indentation to define code blocks. This means that the whitespace at the beginning of a line is significant.

For example, in the following code snippet, the `print("Hello")` statement is indented with four spaces, which indicates that it is part of the `if` block:

```python

if 5 > 2:
    print("Five is greater than two!")
```

If you do not use the correct indentation, you will get an `IndentationError`.

The number of spaces is up to you as a programmer, the most common use is four, but it has to be at least one. You just have to make sure to use the same number of spaces in the same block of code, otherwise, you will get an `IndentationError`.

The following code snippet will raise an `IndentationError` because the indentation is inconsistent:

```python
if 5 > 2:
    print("Five is greater than two!")
  print("Hello, World!")
```

## Comments

Comments are used to explain the code and make it more readable. They are ignored by the Python interpreter when the code is executed.

Comments start with a #, and Python will render the rest of the line (after the #) as a comment:

```python
# This is a comment
# print("Welcome")
print("Hello, World!")  # Anything after this is also a comment
```

## Exercise

1. What is the purpose of indentation in Python?
   Ans: Indentation is used to define code blocks in Python.

2. How do you create a comment in Python?
   Ans: Comments in Python start with a #.
