# 2.2 Variables

## Learning Objectives

By the end of this lesson, you should be able to:

- Define variables in Python
- Assign values to variables
- Use appropriate variable names
- Assign multiple variables in a single line

## Introduction

Variables are used to store data values. In Python, variables are created when you assign a value to them.

```python
x = 5
y = "Hello, World!"
```

In the example above, `x` is an _integer (int)_ variable with the value `5`, and `y` is a _string (str)_ variable with the value `"Hello, World!"`.

Variables do not need to be declared with any particular type, and can even change type after they have been set.

```python
x = 5 # x is of type int
x = "Hello, World!" # x is now of type str
print(x)
```

## Variable Names

When naming variables, there are a few rules to follow:

- Variable names must start with a letter or an underscore (`_`).
- Variable names cannot start with a number.
- Variable names can only contain alpha-numeric characters and underscores (`A-z`, `0-9`, and `_`).
- Variable names are case-sensitive (`myVar`, `myvar`, and `MYVAR` are all different variables).
- Variable names should be descriptive and meaningful.
- Variable names should not be the same as Python [keywords](https://www.w3schools.com/python/python_ref_keywords.asp) (e.g., `print`, `if`, `else`, `for`, etc.).

Here are some examples of valid and invalid variable names:

```python
# Valid variable names
myVar = "Hello, World!"
my_var = "Hello, World!"
_my_var = "Hello, World!"
myVar123 = "Hello, World!"

# Invalid variable names
123myVar = "Hello, World!" # Cannot start with a number
my-Var = "Hello, World!" # Cannot contain special characters
my Var = "Hello, World!" # Cannot contain spaces
```

### Multi Word Variable Names

When naming variables with multiple words, you have a few options:

- Camel Case: `myVariableName`
- Pascal Case: `MyVariableName`
- Snake Case: `my_variable_name`
- Kebab Case: `my-variable-name`

Choose a naming convention that is consistent with the rest of your codebase. In python, the most common convention is to use snake case.

## Assigning Multiple Variables

You can assign values to multiple variables in a single line:

```python
x, y, z = "Orange", "Banana", "Cherry"
print(x)
print(y)
print(z)
```

In the example above, `x` is assigned the value `"Orange"`, `y` is assigned the value `"Banana"`, and `z` is assigned the value `"Cherry"`.

You can also assign the same value to multiple variables in a single line:

```python
x = y = z = "Orange"
print(x, y, z) # You can also print multiple variables in a single line
```

In the example above, `x`, `y`, and `z` are all assigned the value `"Orange"`.

## Exercise Questions

1. What is a variable in Python?
2. How do you assign a value to a variable in Python?
3. What are the rules for naming variables in Python?
4. How do you assign values to multiple variables in a single line?
